= mediawiki-extension-datatables = 

== What can this extension do? ==
Adds the ''[http://datatables.net DataTables]'' extension for [[wikipedia:jQuery|jQuery]] to MediaWiki using the [[ResourceLoader]]. This extension is a thin wrapper around the jQuery library written by [http://www.sprymedia.co.uk/ Allan Jardine]; it is meant to provide the ''DataTables'' library for [[developers]] and is not intended to be a feature for wiki-users to use.

== Usage ==
To use this library in your custom MediaWiki extension, define <code>ext.datatables</code> as a dependency when [[ResourceLoader/Developing_with_ResourceLoader#Registering|registering your ResourceLoader module.]] That's it! MediaWiki will take care of the rest. You can go ahead and use the library right away. Like so:
: <source lang="javascript" enclose="div" highlight="5">
$myResourceLoaderModule => array(
		'scripts'      => 'js/ext.myExtension.js',
		'styles'       => 'css/ext.myExtension.css',
		'dependencies' => array(
			'ext.datatables',
			// other javascript libraries...
			)
		);
</source>

You can then have your JavaScript call datatables using the typical call:
$( '#example' ).dataTable();
Please see the excellent documentation of DataTables at http://datatables.net/. There are many examples and this code is quite flexible. 

== Download instructions ==
You can install this extension by cloning the [https://github.com/bluecurio/mediawiki-extension-datatables Github repository] or by downloading a ZIP file from Github and installing it manually. (See below.) Once you have the code in place, add the following to [[Manual:LocalSettings.php|LocalSettings.php]]:
<source lang="php">
# DataTables
require_once( "$IP/extensions/DataTables/DataTables.php" );
</source>

=== Installing with git ===
From the command-line, clone the github repository into your <code>extensions/</code> directory, like so:
$ git clone https://github.com/bluecurio/mediawiki-extension-datatables extensions/DataTables

=== Installing as a ZIP ===
If you don't have <code>[[wikipedia:git|git]]</code> installed on your computer, please follow the following directions:
# Browse to https://github.com/bluecurio/mediawiki-extension-datatables
# Find the button that says ''"Download ZIP"'' and click it
# Download the ZIP file and put it on your computer in your Mediawiki's <code>extensions/</code> directory
# Unzip it
# Rename the folder to <code>DataTables</code>


=== Configuration parameters ===
None! 

== More documentation ==
The http://datatables.net/ website is a wonderful resource for learning to use the jQuery library. I highly recommend having a look at the examples and reading through the configuration settings. 


== See also ==
* http://datatables.net DataTables jQuery Extensiongg
